CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute to fscryptctl

We'd love to accept your patches and contributions to this project. There are
just a few small guidelines you need to follow.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License
Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution,
this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as
part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see
your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one
(even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it
again.

## Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more
information on using pull requests.

## Before you submit a pull request

When making any changes to `fscryptctl`, you will need the following commands:
*   `make format` which formats all of the C code (requires `clang-format`)
*   `make test` which runs the tests for fscryptctl (requires `python` and the
    `pytest` and `keyutils` python packages). Note that to run all of the tests,
    the environment variable `TEST_FILESYSTEM_ROOT` must be set to the
    mountpoint of an ext4 filesystem setup for encryption that the user can
    mount and unmount.
*   `make all` - Runs the above commands and builds `fscryptctl`.

Make sure all these commands are run and the tests pass before submitting a pull
request. All the above dependencies can be installed with:
``` bash
> sudo apt-get install python-pip libkeyutils-dev clang-format
> sudo -H pip install -U pip pytest keyutils
```

Commit message:

Update the fscryptctl tests
- Add tests for all new functionality.  That primarily includes v2
  policy support in get_policy and set_policy; the new commands add_key,
  remove_key, and key_status; support for more encryption modes; and
  support for key sizes other than 64 bytes.

- Update to Python 3, as Python 2 is no longer supported by python.org.

- Change 'make test' to no longer require root.  It now just
  accepts an empty directory on a filesystem that supports encryption.
  It no longer requires that it be a mountpoint, and it no longer
  unmount and remounts the filesystem.  (Unmounting was used to test
  fully removing encryption keys for v1 policies, but that wasn't
  testing fscryptctl itself anyway, so having it in the fscryptctl test
  suite didn't add too much.  And it's not needed for v2 policies.)

- Change 'make test-setup' and 'make test-teardown' run sudo themselves,
  like they do in the Makefile for 'fscrypt', so that the user doesn't
  need to explicitly run them under 'sudo'.

- Add 'make test-all' as shorthand for test-setup + test +
  test-teardown.

- Support wrapping the fscryptctl binary with valgrind.

- Bump the kernel requirement to run the tests up to 5.4 or later.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute to fscryptctl

We'd love to accept your patches and contributions to this project. There are
just a few small guidelines you need to follow.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License
Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution,
this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as
part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see
your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one
(even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it
again.

## Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more
information on using pull requests.

## Before you submit a pull request

When making any changes to `fscryptctl`, run the following commands:
* `make format`, which formats the source code (requires `clang-format`)
* `make test-all`, which builds `fscryptctl` and runs the tests.  The tests
  require the `e2fsprogs` and `python3` packages, the `pytest` and `keyutils`
  Python packages, and kernel support for ext4 encryption.

The userspace dependencies can be installed with:
``` bash
> sudo apt-get install e2fsprogs python3-pip libkeyutils-dev clang-format
> sudo -H pip3 install -U pip pytest keyutils
```

Your Linux kernel must be version 5.4 or later and have the following
configuration options enabled:
```
CONFIG_EXT4_FS
CONFIG_FS_ENCRYPTION
```

Optionally, also enable the following kernel config options so that all
encryption algorithms can be tested:
```
CONFIG_CRYPTO_ADIANTUM
CONFIG_CRYPTO_SHA256
CONFIG_CRYPTO_ESSIV	(if kernel is v5.5 or later)
```
